Yeah, so the title's actually kind of a pun or something.
So, yeah, so hi, I'm Paul Syverson from the
Naval Research Lab.
If you don't know me, the thing I'm probably most
known for is I invented onion routing with a couple of my
NRL colleagues forever ago, back in the 90s, and then
a few years later with a couple of non-NRL colleagues
created a version of that we called Tor.
And this is the main thing I've been working on pretty
much ever since.
What I've been working on mostly for the last several
years is the question of there's a lot of domain names
that have associated onion addresses.
If you don't know what an onion address is, I don
't have enough time to explain it.
So, for our purposes, you can just think of it as pretty
much like a PLC did because it's a cryptograph
ically self-certifying address.
And domain names are generally human meaningful, and onion addresses are these
cryptographically things that are not, and turns out how to
discover when things are associated and how to be sure they
're bound together has all kinds of problems that, has all kinds
of problems, and which I have spelled out in all of these
papers that I'm not going to actually talk about, but that
's there if you want to go look for them, and then
also, fortunately, solutions to these.
What are the goals of the work here is to sort of
synthesize those things with, at proto-identities, so handles and
dids, with a couple of goals.
One is to improve and generalize blue sky verified accounts, to
be more than they are now, explicit about who the verifier
is, and also to provide some context, to be decentralized, so it
's not limited just to the blue sky trusted verifiers, and
also open, so that anybody can have a verified identity, and in
addition, we want to synthesize these together in a way that
allows us to have self-certifying meaningful identities that are consistently
transparent, that are blocking resistant, this is one of the things onion
services provide in a way I won't explain, and robust to
TLS certificate hijack, and also, everything we've done is
sort of fully backwards compatible, so that if you are running something
that doesn't know anything about our stuff, as long as it
uses the standard protocols, nothing's going to break.
You won't get the advantages, but nothing's going to break.
So this is joint work with the force of nature, who is
Nick Jarakinas, who's right there.
And yes.
So suppose, as an example, I didn't know about smoke signal,
and Nick says, oh, here's this cool thing, smoke signal, you
should check it out.
And let's assume that he and I have a trusted channel
over signal, and we've validated that, that I trust Nick about
identifiers for domains, or maybe just for particular domains, we can
come back to that.
But what if smoke signal.
events has a TLS hijack?
So just what I mean by that, well, if you go to
smoke signal.
events, you get the little, the usual lock icon.
And if you click on that, you can see a certificate that
says that an authority, in this case, let's encrypt, says,
oh, the key that's authenticating this connection is, in fact,
associated with the name smoke signal.
So that's great.
Only problem is, it's way too easy to obtain bogus
TLS certificates.
It's not completely trivial, and a lot of people have done
a lot of work to make it harder, but I don't
think there's a problem that's going away anytime soon.
It's just a big, bad problem.
So the answer, what if it gets hijacked, is somebody can
basically set up their own version of smoke signal, and get me
to think whatever about upcoming events, or maybe reveal some kind of
sensitive information in the course of RSVPing, so in
general, bad situation.
But what if instead of giving me just the link to smoke
signal.
events, the URL includes the PLC did for smoke signal.
events.
And again, we have the trusted channel that I'm getting things
from, Nick from.
Now if I go and follow that URL, we have a Firefox
extension that Nick created, that ultimately I would like this to just
be built into Firefox, but you need to crawl before you walk.
So this extension checks that there's a header that
gets sent.
And it makes sure that the key that's on the header
is in fact associated with this did, and further that the did
that's in the did document matches the did that was in
the URL.
As opposed to if, for example, the did was not a good
did, then you would fail the checks.
So great.
So this provides what I like to call dirt simple trust.
The idea is I need, all I need is the address and
I'm kind of done.
That's enough.
I can't, I can't be hijacked or anything as
long as we have this I discovered it in this way.
Relatedly, it also offers what I would call authority independence.
So the idea is no authority, no CA can say, oh, no,
here's the new key for, for smoke signal, because they don
't control the key that is associated with the did, I can
't be tricked about that.
So because I learned of this URL from Nick, and because it
passed the checks when I tried to connect to it, I can
trust that Nick told me that the handle and did are in
fact bound together, and further that, because I trust Nick, I can
trust that they are bound together.
But we're not quite done, because in order to do this,
we had to have this, you know, signal exchange.
And Nick has been very tolerant of me, but I think if
every time I wanted to have a secure connection with anything, I
had to have a signal communication with him, maybe that would try
even Nick's patients.
So we, therefore, have it automated so that we have a record
that you get a signed header that's signed by, say, n
jrakinis.
me, as well as by smoke signal, that says that these are
bound together.
And further, and this is where I'm introducing contextual labels, it
could have a label like, for example, this is a Nick project,
this is a project that Nick did.
So let's contrast this with the way Blue Sky currently handles
verified accounts.
So you can, Blue Sky will directly verify somebody's account as
belonging to someone, but they also have a handful of trusted ver
ifiers.
And that's fine, but it has some limitations.
For one thing, you have to be important in order to get
a verified account.
Or you have to be affiliated with one of these, there's
about 20 currently trusted verifiers.
Most of them are journalism organizations, and I mean, I think that
's great, but the rest of us are just SOL if we
don't have, you know, one of these affiliations.
So what we have is it supports that kind of functionality, and
I think should replace it.
So you can just do the same thing, that's what I
've got here on the left, your left, whatever.
But it doesn't have to be centralized like that.
You could also have, say, like the town of Springfield is
going to tell you what the local cities are in Springfield.
So you might have a local news source in Springfield, and
this is a good way you can resist pink slime journalism because
you won't have some, you know, somebody from far away mas
querading as being from Springfield.
Or it can also be even at the individual level.
So this scales both up and down.
So like if you're somebody, I just made this entity up,
as far as I know, but you know, you have somebody named
Vegan Piper, maybe you trust them about where there are vegan
restaurants around.
But maybe you don't trust them about that.
But you do trust them about, you know, bagpipe supplies.
So you can choose which you want to trust them on.
So I don't have a lot of time here.
So that's it.
And I'll be happy to take any questions.
Do we have any questions for
Paul?
We've got a couple of minutes.
Hooray.
Yes.
All right.
For the record, those of us at Blue Sky also think that
they should replace the verification system.
Yeah.
You know, you have to crawl before you go, Dave, you know,
a real problem that was being solved in real time right away
and clearly the right thing to do.
But I think this is a good migration.
Yeah.
Absolutely.
Fantastic.
There was a question over here.
Oh.
Or did you change your mind?
Yeah.
Hi.
I was just wondering if you've investigated in your work putting
the signature information or any kind of that relational information on the
atmosphere itself.
I get why it has to be in the HTTP signatures, but
if there's any connection to like some sort of record that
this person trusts this org or something like that.
Well, it's, I mean, it, I mean, yeah, it is, it
's in there.
I mean.
So there's, there's, you know, like you talked, so a
lot of content made it onto the floor, unfortunately.
Yes.
So a HTTP signature could reference, for example, a, uh, have, could
include an ATURI that is in the, in the repository
that has more involved contextual trust information.
And the DIT documents themselves represent a whole lot of information.
You can have key controllers, identity controllers, also known as relationships, and
the bi-directional relationship representing conceptual, or consensual, uh,
uh, referencing for DITs, uh, keys, verification methods, et cetera.
And even shared keys across them can show that, Hey, this identity,
uh, you know, is affiliated with John Hopkins, for example, which is
affiliated with, you know, a parent entity and so forth.
And the, the trust can be, uh, traversed, um, using those.
That's the idea.
Yeah.
In, in my role as MC, I'm going to move us
along, but do please, uh, talk to Paul and Nick.
As you say, for the benefits of people online, what was asked
was, well, is this directly built into AT?
And, uh, uh, the short version is Nick said yes.
Excellent.
Fantastic.